(Waves crashing on beach)
(Keys jangle in distance)
(Footsteps approaching)
(Voices shouting in distance)
- Sounds lively out there.
- The rabble are out in force tonight.
The list...
..ofthose summoned to speak against you.
ROSS: A long list.
Jud Paynter?
You know him?
He was my servant.
Well, now he's the Crown's.
And the testimony of a loyal servant
against his former master...
Nail in the coffin.
(Angry shouting)
(Chamber music plays)
Mistress Poldark, how delightful!
Mr Penvenen.
To think of us meeting again so soon!
And may I introduce my niece, Caroline.
Mistress Demelza Poldark of Nampara.
And Mr Unwin Trevaunance.
Are you here for the election, ma'am?
Er... No, ma'am, for the assizes.
Oh, yes. Unwin, were you not telling me
there was a Poldark to be tried this week?
That's my husband, ma'am.
And is he guilty? What did he do?
(Trevaunance clears throat)
Well, if I were the judge, I would sentence him
to be returned to his wife without delay.
(Hubbub of voices)
That must be the crowd, clamouring for me.
Will you join me outside?
Why not? I enjoy a baying mob.
May I be of service, ma'am?
Well, since you mention it...
Oh, for pity's sake!
Must we always have these dire predictions?
Not once have I known you forecast
an outcome which was remotely cheering!
I'm not divining the future.
I'm entertaining myselfwith a game of Snap.
Go to Bodmin, Elizabeth.
You'll never be satisfied till you do.
This election? 'Tis a joke!
What difference do it make?
Who suffers when mines close?
Not fancy folk.
Stuffed to t'gizzards wi' beef - while we scrape
by on black bread and beech leaves!
In France, they wouldn't stand for it.
It's come here to Bodmin soon enough, and it
won't be long before it reaches you in Truro.
Bin out there, 'ave 'ee?
'Tis like a powder keg!
Dr Enys!
- What brings 'ee here?
- Same as you, Prudie.
To speak for Cap'n Ross?
As I'm sure we all will.
Mr Paynter, are you ill?
Dammit, can a man not study the innards of
a jug without bein' clepp'd malingerer?
I commend you to your studies.
Goin' out there? 'Ave a care.
'Twill take but a spark...
(Mimics explosion)
Your defence is proving more of a challenge
than I'd anticipated.
Do you have the document from Harris Pascoe?
Your last will and testament?
Influence?
I do not have that sort of influence, ma'am.
And it would prejudice your husband's case,
not help it.
- But if it was put the right way?
- If it were put any way, ma'am.
No, no, no.
I wouldn't dream oftrying to persuade a judge.
Believe me, I sympathise. I really do.
And I do dearly hope that the court
look kindly on your husband.
But the surest way of attaining the opposite,
would be to try and influence the judge.
I see.
(She sighs)
Forgive me, sir.
I'm a little despairing.
Is he...a kindly man?
In appearance, I mean?
Justice Lister? Somewhat severe.
- Small and stout?
- Tall and lean.
Does he likes his port?
Resolutely sober.
Ifthere's to be a reckoning,
it's as well to have one's affairs in order...
..little as there is of value.
My household effects,
my shares in Wheal Leisure...
Mr Pascoe mentions a Wheal Grace.
My father's old mine.
- It's derelict.
- But still yours.
And still deemed an asset.
Not by me!
I deem it a worthless hole in the ground.
But by all means, let me bequeath it to my wife,
along with my other debts and liabilities.
(He exhales heavily)
I really have left her nothing.
- Excuse me...
- No.
- Ouch!
- Oh, dear, madam, my deepest apologies.
- Are you hurt?
- Only my dignity, sir.
May I assist you to a chair?
Some port, perhaps?
No, thank you.
I never touch it, sir.
(Low chatter)
- Are you stalking me, Dr Enys?
- Not at all, ma'am.
But now I'm here, may I be of service?
Can you prescribe
something to keep me awake?
- You find the election boring?
- Exceedingly dull.
And the rabble out there insufferable.
Oh, I grant you, it seems unpleasant.
But take each man for himself
and he's likeable enough.
Are you a Jacobin, like Ross Poldark?
It's clear you don't know Ross Poldark.
No, but I expect to tomorrow, and I'd hope for
better entertainment than I've had here tonight.
Perhaps you're the sort
who takes a window at Tyburn
for the pleasure of seeing someone
choked to death?
And is it any business of yours if I am?
No, I'm thankful not.
MAN: Gentlemen, I have here the results
ofthe Bodmin constituency.
Chenhalls, Michael: 2,250.
(Cheering)
Dagge, Hugh: 1 ,203.
Trevaunance, Unwin: 1 ,203.
It's a tie for second place!
A farcical state of affairs!
There'll have to be a second vote
to decide the remaining seat.
There can be no question ofthat.
Regard yourself as elected and act accordingly.
- But how? I'm tied in second place!
- The chair, man. Take a second chair.
Claim your seat before Dagge has chance to
contest it. Come now, there's no time to lose!
(Mob shouting)
Who are ye?
- Er...well...
- D'you know me? D'you speak for me?
- I'm your elected member...
- Who elected ye?
Did I? Did any here?
(Angry shouts of denial)
You don't speak for me!
But maybe this will!
Turn it round.
(Angry shouting)
Get me back inside!
I hope he brought his rose-water!
There'll be a reckoning, mark ye!
Commoners don't 'old wi' bein'
tramped underfoot!
Bring down the fancy folk an' let the poor rise!
Ye shan't muzzle me!
I'm a free man - I've a right to speak!
Urgh!
Apparently not.
This has not helped our cause.
Mission accomplished.
Unwin has established his claim.
Almost at the expense of his own life!
Is it always like this in Bodmin?
I couldn't say. I live near Truro.
I'm only here for tomorrow's trial.
You speak for Ross Poldark?
I look forward to seeing you acquit yourself.
Happily, it's not I who is on trial.
Are you quite certain ofthat?
You flatter yourself, ma'am.
Are all men so odiously conceited?
I shouldn't put conceit
as the particular property of one sex.
How gracious of you to correct me, sir!
I wonder you're so solicitous
for one you so clearly despise.
You're mistaken, madam.
I neither solicit nor despise.
That rabble!
Have they no respect for their betters?
Or for the law?
Someone needs to take them
by the scruff ofthe neck and...
Oh, good God!
What is the woman doing?
She'll hang her husband if she's not careful.
So let me ask Your Lordship - how can a body
judge if a person be tellin' the truth?
Well...
Some of 'em be so downright convincin'
and have all the evidence to back 'em up.
But ifthe evidence be false?
Excuse me.
For instance, erm...if a body did
know the truth about an accused...
..wouldn't he or she then be obliged to speak?
Most assuredly,
in the appropriate place.
Which would be the court.
Then put the case, sir,
that a body know'd some other body
who paid money so that
other bodies might speak lies.
You list a great many bodies, ma'am.
Are any ofthem here now?
Well, in truth, seen as you do ask me directly,
Your Lordship...
Mistress Demelza, what a pleasure to see you.
And Your Lordship - out unusually late?
Indeed, sir.
Though not unagreeably detained.
You must be grateful for the distraction, ma'am.
Did you speak ofyour husband?
- Of course you will meet him tomorrow.
- Sir?
Ross Poldark,
when he comes before you in court.
Oh...you were not aware?
No, sir, I was not.
You will pardon me, ma'am, sir.
Let me accompany you.
What do you make ofthis assault
on our newly-elected MP?
Barely escaped with his life. Ifthis goes on,
we'll have a revolution on our hands.
In Cornwall?
People are fearful, sir. People are wondering
when a clear message will be sent.
Those who stir up disorder should expect
the severest penalty. Would you not agree?
I do, sir.
Beg pardon, sur, there's a gentleman within.
A Mr Francis Poldark?
Oh, yes.
Francis?
Locked, sir, from the inside.
(Rattles lock)
- We may need to break it down.
- Nay, 'twill damage it.
Damn it, man, Mr Poldark may be ill.
He may even...
(Door opens)
This is the statement I've prepared for you.
You may find it a little contrite for your taste.
There are limits - even if one's neck is at stake.
So you'd go to the gallows
on a point of principle?
Of course it's your life, to do as you please.
Are you a fatalist, Enys?
Or do you believe that we are
masters of our own destiny?
- Well...
- Because a short while ago I...
..pointed this at my head and it misfired.
The flint went down
but the powder did not ignite.
Since then I've been trying to decide
whether to do it again.
I agree, it's in very poor taste to use
your hospitality for such a purpose.
But I erm...
Anyway, the thing's not done, so...
..for the moment, you have a talkative
companion instead of a silent one.
I don't understand.
Why would you wish...?
Francis, you are young, propertied, respected,
you have a beautiful wife, a healthy son...
Stop!
Or I shall weep forjoy!
Let's have some brandy, hm?
At any rate, I can do no damage
until I have fresh powder.
I hope you will reconsider.
Here's to the devil.
(Glasses clink)
Lord knows whose side he's been on tonight.
Why do you hate him?
What has he ever done to deserve it?
I doubt you'd understand.
Because I am not so well-bred as you?
I am a miner's daughter. But you are a
blacksmith's grandson. What is the difference?
The difference is that you will always be a
miner's daughter, whereas I am a gentleman.
- I am a gentleman's wife.
- Soon to be a gentleman's widow.
CLYMER: Got a wife?
Got a family?
You don't think it's worth making
this concession for their sakes?
I appreciate your efforts.
But I cannot put my name
to beggary and flattery.
Damn it, man, you have no choice!
The case against you's too strong.
It's not a question of whether
you'll be found guilty, but when.
And what the sentence will be.
All you can do is paint a penitent figure,
so that you may escape the worst.
The worst, I tell you.
Perhaps you will consider that
before you sleep tonight.
(Keys jangle then turn in lock)
Did you have better luck?
If anything, I've made it worse.
What did you hope to achieve?
I don't know.
Anything.
Verity, I lost my child.
How could I bear it if I lost Ross too?
(Sobs)
Ask me, Enys.
Am I cleaning it to put away or...
..do I intend to use it again?
Do you?
If I see a suitable target.
(Coins clinking)
What 'ee be up to, 'ee lizardy,
lousedy piss-a-bed?
Up to? I?
Innocent as a new-born babe.
Witnesses primed
and we've augmented the crowd
with persons who share our view
ofthe accused
and will not scruple
to make their voices heard.
- And His Lordship?
- Is immune to persuasion.
On the contrary.
I believe he was persuaded last night
without a penny changing hands.
(Bell tolls in distance)
GUARD: Jack Tripp, on your feet!
Do you go before the court?
With head held high.
And sore, no doubt.
Not fer long.
The noose is a great curer fer 'eadaches!
I wish you justice - ifthere's any to be found.
Which there ain't - as we both do know.
(Keys jangling)
So luck it must be.
For us both, then.
As ringleader and instigator ofthe affray,
in which you did, unlawfully,
assemble together
a violent and unruly mob,
you have been found guilty.
It now only remains for me to pass
the dreadful sentence ofthe law,
which is that you be taken
from hence to a place of execution,
where you will be hanged by the neck
until you die.
CLERK: Call Ross Poldark!
(Clamouring)
(Angry shouting)
MAN: Murderer!
WOMAN: Murder!
CLERK: Order!
Why do they cry "murder"?
That is not the charge.
Silence in court!
(Hissing and shouting)
- So many against him?
- Only the ones paid by George.
But ifthe jury believe them?
Ross Vennor Poldark,
you stand accused that you did incite riot,
viciously attack a customs officer,
and did plunder diverse goods
belonging to a ship in distress.
- How do you plead?
- Not guilty.
(Clamouring)
- (Door bursts open)
- Let the court beware this man!
A devil in gent's clothing!
He stole my daughter, debauch'd an' left her
unfit for neither man nor beast!
Have him taken.
And when I did go to the rescue o' my child,
this man did viciously assault I -
a poor God-fearing man in his dotage -
with fists and with weapons.
I tell 'ee, this man do think himself
above the law,
do think he may take whate'er he please
an' ne'er pay the price for it.
I do implore the court to see
thatjustice be done,
in the name of I an' all
who've suffered at his hands!
Continue.
Gentlemen ofthe jury.
You'll recall that in this summer's great winds...
..a ship got into distress and was driven
ashore on Hendrawna Beach,
just below the house ofthe accused.
You might expect that such a man's first thought
would be the safety ofthe poor souls aboard.
Instead, he sought to rouse
the lawless spirits ofthe district,
so that when the wreck came in,
it might be plundered with the utmost dispatch.
Witnesses will testify that the accused
personally directed the plunder.
And that survivors from the wreck
were beaten as they struggled ashore.
When a contingent of
soldiers and excise men arrived,
the prisoner warned them not to interfere
and threatened them with violence ifthey did.
When they nonetheless went down on the
beach, they were set upon by the accused.
One ofthem received near-fatal injuries.
Did you see the prisoner
attack the customs officer?
Yes, sur.
Seed him strike a blow 'cross his pate.
- And kick him when he's down!
- You liar! That's a lie!
(Angry shouting)
- "Roused from sleep", you say?
- Aye, sur. By 'im, sur.
- Saying what?
- "Pickings for all!
Hendrawna beach! Wreck's comin' in!
Strip 'er to the last plank!"
When you reached Hendrawna Beach,
what did you see the accused do?
Pluck cargo from the sea, pile it up on
the strand and direct others to do the same.
Did you see him assault the customs officer?
Aye, sur. Assault, sur. Terrible thing, sur.
(Angry shouting)
Order!
Ephraim Oliver, you were on the beach
on the night of January 7th last.
What did you see?
That man striked a gauger across his skull and
kicked 'im to the ground an' leave 'im for dead.
William Fiddick, how close were you
when he struck John Coppard, the excise man?
Close as you be to me, sur,
an' felt the blow like 'twas across me own 'ead.
Sergeant Tremayne, the prisoner warned you
not to go to the beach, yet you did so. Why?
Well, I felt he was casting doubts on my resolve
and goading me to do so.
(Breathes heavily)
Oh, Demelza!
Is it not intolerable in there?
I could scarce breathe.
Nor I.
I came for Francis.
I never thanked you...
for tending me in my sickness.
You saved my son.
And at such a cost.
- How can you bear it?
- I'm with child again.
Is...Ross glad?
I've not told him.
- Ifthings go ill today...
- Pray God they do not.
- I must...
- Of course.
Call Jud Paynter.
(Prosecutor clears throat)
Describe to us, Mr Paynter,
what took place the night ofthe gale.
So there's Prudie - that's the wife -
snorin' fit to rouse the dead.
When along come Cap'n Ross, sayin',
"Ship gone ashore down Hendrawna."
I cannot believe
he would turn against Ross like this.
- Yes?
- Yes.
- And what did he do?
- Do?
Did he urge you to do anything?
Urge? Oh, aye.
'Ee says to I...
"Roust the rest ofthe village
an' head down to the shore."
- Did he give you a reason?
- Reason?
Aye.
"Come now," he says, "sharp as 'ee can,
for likely there's...
..women an' children aboard who
need saving from a watery grave."
Come, man, recollect yourself.
Think what you're saying.
Aye, that's what 'ee said, right enough.
I tell you, man, to think again. What you say is
not in accordance with your sworn statement.
"When Captain Poldark came to my house,
he told me to hurry and rouse the village
because there was a wreck
and the sooner it was stripped the better,
before the authorities turned up."
No, sur, I never said them words
an' I never thought 'em neither.
I remind you, Mr Paynter,
this statement was made before witnesses
and read aloud to you before you signed.
Aye, well, sur, see...I is 'ard of hearing.
So it's likely I misheard what they said
and they misheard what I said.
Mr Bull, I would have thought it was clear
that this witness has committed perjury -
either now
or when he made his original statement.
I would suggest that you turn him out ofthe box
and get on with your case.
You should have brandished less carrot
and more stick.
We could not possibly have foreseen...
I beg to differ.
These people have peculiar loyalties.
What of Captain Bray?
Did you manage to prevail there?
CLERK: Call Captain Bray.
Describe, Captain Bray, the sight that met
your eyes as you came ashore that night.
Like Dante's Inferno.
Drunken men cavorting, mules struggling
beneath the spoils from the ship.
All semblance of order gone.
'Twas as close to hell as I ever hope to come.
And your passengers and crew?
Confronted by viciousness ofthe grossest kind.
I had to stand guard to prevent them
being torn to pieces.
Thank you, Captain Bray.
Your description would strike a chill
into the heart of any decent human being.
(Murmurs of assent)
The prisoner begs leave to question the witness.
Granted.
Captain Bray, do you recall seeing me
on the beach that night?
You came and offered me and my passengers
shelter in your house.
And did you see or hear me
encouraging anyone to wreck your ship?
It was dark, sir.
But I don't believe I'd set eyes on you
until that moment.
Did you see the meeting of myself
and the captain ofthe soldiers?
As I recall, you warned him
not to go down to the beach.
And did I accompany you into my house, sir?
- You did.
- Thank you.
One moment. How long did the accused
stay with you after you entered the house?
About five minutes.
He said that his wife was ill
and he needed to tend her.
When did you see him again?
About two hours later.
So there was nothing to prevent him
leaving when you were settled
and returning to the beach
to attack the excise men?
- I suppose not.
- Thank you. You may stand down.
(Murmur of conversation)
It's no exaggeration to suggest
that what we have here is a revolutionary.
Self-serving, contemptuous of his class,
careless of other's property.
Of all the crimes committed that night, this man
was the instigator and chief perpetrator.
It is not within my scope to call to attention
the previous acts of lawlessness
- that have marred the accused's character.
- Objection!
Confine yourselfto the present allegations,
Mr Bull.
But it is relevant to draw conclusions
from statements made by the accused
at the time of his arrest,
statements purporting to explain his actions,
justify them,
and which brand him an obvious admirer
ofthe bloodshed and tyranny in France!
(Shouts of agreement)
Asked if he encouraged the riot
which broke out on the beach:
"I did not consider it a riot."
Asked if he approved of
plunder and lawlessness:
"Do you approve ofwhole families being
without sufficient food to keep them alive?"
Asked what part he played
in the death of Matthew Sanson:
"Regrettably none whatsoever."
If you have ever heard a more damning
indictment from a prisoner's own mouth,
I would frankly be amazed.
Such a man is a danger to us all.
The Country and Justice itself
deserves the severest penalty.
The Crown rests its case.
- (Cheering and applause)
- (Judge bangs gavel)
Witnesses for the defence?
Are there any?
Call Dwight Enys.
My Lord, I am the physician who attended
Captain Poldark's wife and child
during their attack ofthe putrid throat.
At that time I was constantly in the house
and can testify that Captain Poldark
had no sleep for almost a week.
His only child died and was buried
but a few days before the wreck.
On the day itself...
..I formed the opinion that he had suffered
a mental breakdown.
I consider that any strangeness in his actions
should almost entirely be attributed to that.
- You're an apothecary?
- A physician, sir.
A licentiate ofthe London College of Physicians
and a Cornishman by birth.
- And an expert on mental afflictions?
- I did not say so.
Then your views on the matter can hardly
be expected to carry much weight.
I believe they can, sir.
In my view, Captain Poldark was, temporarily,
through grief and lack of sleep, not himself.
Do you consider that anyone
who loses a child and a few nights' sleep
is justified in creating a riot?
I do not believe he created the riot.
We require your opinion as a physician, sir,
not as a friend or drinking companion.
I speak purely as a physician and base
my opinion on clinical observation.
Captain Poldark was unsteady on his feet
and disordered in his remarks.
- Perhaps he was drunk.
- He had not touched a drink in days.
My Lord, when his infant daughter died,
a great many people came to the funeral.
All of society, from highest to low.
He's held in very great esteem.
But with his wife ill,
it was impossible to give them refreshment.
This weighed heavy on his mind.
And I suggest to you
that he did provide for them.
In rousing the rabble and leading them to
the wreck, he both assuaged his conscience
and filled his larder with pillaged goods.
That was not my meaning, sir.
Thank you, sir. You paint a very clear picture
ofthe prisoner's state of mind.
(Angry shouting)
Enough!
Remove these persons from the court.
They should be taken out and whipped!
CLERK:
The court will take a short adjournment.
We could not have hoped for a betterjudge.
Poldark will surely hang!
Yes.
That is what you wanted?
The mine he will leave to his wife?
We can soon acquire the shares.
Was she not his kitchen maid?
She will give us no trouble.
Do not believe it.
You will be celebrating tonight.
I certainly intend to.
You could not bear to keep away.
- I was concerned.
- Hm. For me?
Do I not have cause?
Well, as you can see, I am well.
So had you not better return to Trenwith?
Having come so far, I may as well stay.
Ross will be gratified.
Are you?
Are you resolved?
To prostrate myself and beg for mercy?
Good God, man,
do you not see what's happening?
You stand accused of riot and lawlessness.
This country lives in dread of France.
This court must be seen to set an example.
That is why you must grovel.
Do so now or you will not live
to see the sun rise tomorrow.
My Lord...gentlemen ofthe jury.
I can only apologise that this case
has taken so much ofyour time.
I will try to take as little more as may be
necessary to beg your clemency.
It is true that I saw a wreck come in...
..that I rode and told several villagers...
..that a number of people came upon
the beach and that items were carried away.
Though not by me.
My house was searched and none were found.
Why?
Because I took none.
The Counsel has suggested
that I'm a revolutionary...
..that these people are revolutionaries...
branded with a desire to overthrow authority.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
The people of Sawle, Mellin and Grambler
who came upon the beach that day
were ordinary people - no more or no less
law-abiding loyal subjects than any here.
As to what happened
when they came up on the beach,
I ask you to think ofthe traditions of our county.
Our people scour the beaches for flotsam.
This is commonly known.
But in times of dire need,
when fathers have seen their children without
a crust for their bellies or a rag for their backs,
these pickings have been the means
of keeping ordinary people alive.
What else would you have them do?
After they have rescued the crew
and brought goods ashore,
are they then to await
the arrival ofthe excise men
and watch them carry offthe goods
that they have salvaged?
You ask if I was in my right mind?
Well, you've heard evidence that I was not.
But is it insanity to think that rich pickings
strewn across a beach
are better used to sustain those in need
than returned to those whose only goal is profit?
I cannot believe it.
I will not believe it.
I make no apology for my actions.
In truth, I would do the same again.
Thank you.
I've heard more penitent speeches.
But rarely more eloquent.
- My apologies.
- Mm.
What happens now?
The Judge's summing up.
I would not expect much benevolence.
Gentlemen ofthe jury,
this man stands accused of riot, theft
and assaulting an officer ofthe Crown.
Your duty is to decide, beyond reasonable
doubt, ifthe prisoner is guilty or innocent.
But in law, if you are satisfied
that a riot took place,
you only need to be satisfied
that the prisoner was involved,
to find him guilty as a principal.
The prisoner has attempted to find
mitigating circumstances
in the distress generally prevailing
amongst the poor.
You may find this an admirable sentiment,
but you would be failing in your duty
if you allowed it
to influence yourjudgment in any way.
Will you now consider your verdict?
You may retire if you wish.
DWIGHT: Bad, is it not?
Very bad.
Not that I don't admire his stubbornness but...
..he'll pay for it.
Will I have a chance to say goodbye to my wife?
You will be removed from court
and taken directly to your fate.
"The quality of mercy is not strained
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven
upon the place beneath:"
And God knows, it droppeth sometimes
on those who least deserve it.
I must congratulate you on your eloquence.
You almost convinced me I was guilty.
In truth, I believe there's nothing
either you or anyone could have said
to change the old man's mind.
He seems determined
to make an example of you.
They're coming back.
Gentlemen ofthe jury...
..have you reached a verdict?
We have.
Do you find the prisoner guilty or not guilty?
We find him...
..not guilty on all three charges.
- I thought we'd lost him!
- I was sure of it!
Oh, Francis, dear brother...
Can we not take heart from this?
Is there not hope in it for all?
- Hope?
- Of a reconciling?
Of you and I gladly, gladly.
But, Verity, for your husband?
While I live and breathe - it will never happen.
So he will come home after all.
Yes.
No, no, don't stop on my account.
I wonder if you would have wept so prettily
had I not come home.
Why would you not have come home, Francis?
Let's not distress ourselves to no purpose.
I am coming home.
And so is Ross.
And tomorrow the sun will rise again.
So let us count our blessings.
Seems I shan't be rid of you yet, Captain.
A pity. I was looking forward to dealing
with the sensible side ofthe family.
Is it over? Are 'ee free?
It would appear so.
(Both laugh)
(Jaunty tune)
(She giggles)
How did he get off?
How could the accursed jury disregard
all the evidence and find him not guilty?
And to think I let my uncle persuade me
against pressing a charge of murder!
I tell you, there was not one atom of proof
and we could not have manufactured it.
And Paynter recanted!
He will pay for it shortly.
What now?
Do we...accept defeat?
By no means.
Wheal Leisure is his one real asset.
We must set about buying up shares.
When I control the mine, I control Ross.
And er...Francis?
His finances are in your hands.
You could break him tomorrow.
I could.
But for the moment,
I intend to make no move at all.
- You care nothing for his good will.
- Not his.
But there is another person to consider.
Not guilty!
As I expected.
Sit here, my dear. (Clears throat)
- May I get you a glass ofwine?
- Thank you.
Stay a little longer with us!
Nay, Jinny, leave 'em be.
They'll be wantin' to be away home.
- Caroline.
- Thank you.
Thank you.
- To Westminster!
- To Ross Poldark!
You must toast as your uncle bids you, Caroline.
You are his ward and you must obey his wishes.
And what are his wishes?
Why, for you to engage yourself
to a man of substance and repute.
I intend to.
(Fiddle playing)
Here's to Ross!
ALL: To Ross!
Judas!
I might go to town tomorrow.
I've a notion to engage a couple of servants.
And what sorts would 'ee be lookin' for?
Fiendishly hardworking...
pitifully grateful...
exceedingly cheap.
Ifyou hear of any such,
tell them to make themselves known to me.
You overlook one thing.
Ross Poldark is alive and must be aware
of our attempts to render him otherwise.
And?
He does not strike me as a man who takes such
things lying down. After all, he's a soldier.
A renegade.
Your point?
That in failing to get him hanged,
you have lef yourself exposed.
(Door opens)
I did not care for Bodmin.
This is what I desire.
You, me...
..our house, candles burning...
..the scent of new-picked violets.
Maybe it's because I'm of common stock,
I'm so easily pleased.
Common stock you are not.
There is one thing I do desire.
A child in the crib.
To take her place?
Not to make us forget her.
Do not wish it.
- Not ever?
- Not for now.
With our future so uncertain.
Our future looks kinder than we ever expected.
Much kinder.
I believe we agreed
you would not come to Bodmin.
Yes, Ross, I believe that we did.
Have I told you what I feel
about a disobedient wife?
about a reckless husband?